iwanttohelp
===========

## What's this about?

As an open source software developer, sometimes I try to help
organisations that are trying to build some sort of tech solution, or
want to encourage openness or collaboration around tech.  Sometimes
other people approach orgs I'm involved in and try to help us.  Everyone
wants to help!

Some of the things people want to help with include:

* building or improving a tech platform or product
* open sourcing a piece software (either an existing one, or building it
  open source from scratch)
* open licensing their data or other materials (existing, or from
  scratch)
* building a volunteer community around their technology or content
* changing the world in wonderful ways through techie magic

That all sounds ace, but it's a bit vague.  Exactly how will this work?
Who'll be involved?  What will it cost (if anything)?  What
organisational support will be needed?

These resources help to have these conversations.

The first thing to look at is the ["first contact"
questionaire](firstcontact.md), which allows the "helper" to understand
the organisation that's seeking help, get an idea of what help is
actually wanted or needed, and how they might be able to work with the
"helpee".

If you find that a "helpee" organisation already has some technology in
place, and wants help improving it, you might find the [existing tech
questionaire](existingtech.md) useful to get an idea of their current
status and what sort of help might be useful.

## Who's this for?

This is primarily intended for "helpers" who are engaged in open source
software and other open tech (eg. open data, APIs, collaborative and
social tech), and "helpee" organisations who know they want to use that
kind of tech, or whose values (eg. working for social good) suggest that
they should consider that kind of tech.

For example, these questionaires could be used by techies who offer
their services to non-profit orgs or social enterprises through hack
days or volunteer programs.

This is not particularly intended for commercial software development
environments (eg. a mainstream IT consultant) though of course those
folks are welcome to adapt this to their purposes, under the terms of
the creative commons license.

## How to use these questionaires

I wouldn't recommend just emailing these to the "helpee" orgs as they
may find them overwhelming or daunting, or not know how to answer some
of the questions.  Instead, use these questionaires as a guide to
"things to find out", and talk through them with your contact at the
helpee org.  You might do this over a coffee or over the phone.

## Who am I?

I'm an open source developer who's got about 15 years' experience
contributing to and leading open source projects and tech communities,
both in volunteer roles and as an employee of a variety of
companies (ranging from small startups to publicly traded tech
companies, including Google).

I am also involved in a range of volunteer and activist communities
inside and outside of tech.  I was one of the founding advisors for [The
Ada Initiative](http://adainitiative.org/), which supports and promotes
women's involvement in open technology and culture.

I have spoken at (and several times keynoted at) dozens of tech
conferences, about subjects like getting more people involved in open
source, how open source ties into broader social movements or can solve
social problems, best practices for open source software development,
and the future of open data.

My current main project is [Growstuff](http://growstuff.org/), an open
source/open data project for food-growers, which has had 30+ developers
in its first year, from a wide range of programming backgrounds and
diverse demographics.  Check out our
[github repo](http://github.com/Growstuff/growstuff) or our
[wiki](http://wiki.growstuff.org) to see how the project operates.  You
may also like to view [my github profile](http://github.com/Skud) to get
a sense of my experience and contributions.

## Critiquing/improving/contributing

Please do!  This is going to be pretty rough at first, and I would love
help and advice from anyone who has experience in these things.

You can make suggestions by raising a github issue ticket, or through a
pull request.

## License

<a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en_US"><img
alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0"
src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br
/>This work by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#"
href="http://infotrope.net" property="cc:attributionName"
rel="cc:attributionURL">Alex Bayley</a> is licensed under a <a
rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en_US">Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.<br />Based
on a work at <a xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/"
href="http://github.com/Skud/iwanttohelp"
rel="dct:source">http://github.com/Skud/iwanttohelp</a>.
